# ALTER: A Lightweight Topic-Aware Representation Legal Case Retrieval System
The official repo for the paper <ALTER: A Lightweight Topic-Aware Representation Legal Case Retrieval System>
## Introduction
We proposes ALTER, A Lightweight Topic-awarE Representation legal case retrieval system, which 
enhances the global semantic representation capability of pretrained language models by incorporating topic modeling. 
The proposed method integrates the macroscopic semantic structure of traditional topic models with the fine-grained 
contextual understanding of Transformer models, achieving deep fusion through a co-attention mechanism. In addition, 
a dual-encoder architecture with an auxiliary classification task is introduced to further improve semantic modeling 
performance. To overcome the efficiency degradation caused by storing explicit topic vectors in existing topic-fusion 
approaches, this study innovatively transforms topic information generated by topic models into a multi-label 
classification schema. By training a deep learning model to map topic words and document texts into a unified semantic 
space, the retrieval process requires only textual information to achieve joint text–topic matching, thereby significantly 
improving retrieval efficiency.
## Installation

### Requirements
```
jieba==0.42.1 
gensim==4.4.3
fastopic==1.0.1
python=3.8
transformers==4.27.1
tqdm==4.65.0 
datasets==2.10.1
torch==1.11.0
faiss==1.7.3 
pytorch==1.12.1
pyserini==0.20.0
numpy==2.2.6
```
### Data format

Before pre-training, you need to process the data into the following form:
```
{   
    "query": STRING,
    "pos_doc": STRING, 
    "neg_docs": LIST
}
```
`data_example.json` provides some examples of training data.

### Topic
The code files for training LDA models on the LeCaRD and COLIEE datasets are respectively located in the LDA_COLIEE.py and LDA_train_chinese.py files.
The code file for obtaining the Topic from the LeCaRD dataset using the LDA model inference is shown in LDA_predict_chinese.py.
The pre-trained Topic models for the LeCaRD dataset are located under lda_model dir.
The training and inference code for Fastopic can be found in file Fastopic_wenshu.py

### Joint Train
```
    BATCH_SIZE_PER_GPU=36
    GRAD_ACCU=4
    CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python -m torch.distributed.launch \
    --nproc_per_node 1 \
    --master_port 29508 \
    model_ALTER.py \
    --model_name_or_path Lawformer \
    --output_dir $OUTPUT_DIR/model/ALTER \
    --logging_steps 50 \
    --save_steps 500 \
    --fp16 \
    --learning_rate 5e-5 \
    --dataloader_num_workers 4 \
    --max_seq_length 512 \
    --num_train_epochs 2000 \
    --train_path ./data/data_example.json \
```
## Evaluation

[trec_eval](https://trec.nist.gov/trec_eval/) is employed to evaluate the model performance

pyserini is used for constructing the index for pretrained language models.